<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>IX</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-9" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">
				<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IX</span>
			</h2>
			<p>Chandler had his empty glass halfway to his lips, automatically, before he realized there was nothing in it to brace him. He said hoarsely, “Yes, thanks. Do you come here often?” It was like the banal talk of a language guide, wildly inappropriate to what had been going on a moment before. He was shaken.</p>
			<p>“Oh, I love it,” cooed Hsi, investigating the dishes before him. “All finished, I see. Too bad. Your friend doesn’t feel like he ate much, either.”</p>
			<p>“I guess he wasn’t hungry,” Chandler managed.</p>
			<p>“Well, I am.” Hsi cocked his head and smiled like a female impersonator. “I know! Are you doing anything special right now, love? I know you’ve eaten, but⁠—well, I’ve been a good girl and I guess I can eat a real meal, I mean not with somebody else’s teeth, and still keep the calories in line. Suppose I meet you down at the Beach? There’s a place there where the luau is divine. I can be there in half an hour.”</p>
			<p>Chandler’s breathing was back to normal. Why not? “I’ll be delighted.”</p>
			<p>“Luigi the Wharf Rat, that’s the name of it. They won’t let you in, though, unless you tell them you’re with me. It’s special.” Hsi’s eye closed in Rosalie Pan’s wink. “Half an hour,” Hsi said, and was again himself. He began to shake.</p>
			<p>The waiter brought him straight whiskey and, pretense abandoned, stood by while Hsi drank it. After a moment he said, “Scares you. But⁠—I guess we’re all right. She couldn’t have heard much. You’d better go, Chandler. I’ll talk to you again some other time.”</p>
			<p>Chandler stood up. But he couldn’t leave Hsi like that. “Are you all right?”</p>
			<p>Hsi almost managed control. “Oh⁠—I think so. Not the first time it’s come close, you know. Sooner or later it’ll come closer still, and that will be the end, but⁠—yes, I’m all right for now.”</p>
			<p>Chandler tarried. “You were saying something about the Society of Slaves.”</p>
			<p>“Damn it, go!” Hsi barked. “She’ll be waiting for you.⁠ ⁠… Sorry, I didn’t mean to shout. But go.” As Chandler turned, he said more quietly, “Come around to the store tomorrow. Maybe we can finish our talk then.”</p>
			<p>Luigi the Wharf Rat’s was not actually on the beach but on the bank of a body of water called the Ala Wai Canal. Across the water were the snowtopped hills. A maitre-de escorted Chandler personally to a table on a balcony, and there he waited. Rosalie’s “half-hour” was nearly two; but then he heard her calling him from across the room, in the voice which had reached a thousand second balconies, and he rose as she came near.</p>
			<p>She said lightly, “Sorry. You ought to be flattered, though. It’s a twenty-minute drive⁠—and an hour and a half to put on my face, so you won’t be ashamed to be seen with me. Well, it’s good to be out in my own skin for a change. Let’s eat!”</p>
			<p>The talk with Hsi had left a mark on Chandler that not even this girl’s pretty face could obscure. It was a pretty face, though, and she was obviously exerting herself to make him enjoy himself. He could not help responding to her mood.</p>
			<p>She talked of her life on the stage, the excitement of a performance, the entertainers she had known. Her conversation was one long namedrop, but it was not pretense: the world of the famous was the world she had lived in. It was not a world that Chandler had ever visited, but he recognized the names. Rosie had been married once to an English actor whose movies Chandler had made a point of watching on television. It was interesting, in a way, to know that the man snored and lived principally on vitamin pills. But it was a view of the man that Chandler had not sought.</p>
			<p>The restaurant drew its clientele mostly from the execs, young ones or young-acting ones, like the girl. The coronets were all over. There had been a sign on the door:</p>
			<b>Kapu, Walihini!</b>
			<p>to mark it off limits to anyone not an exec or a collaborator. Still, Chandler thought, who on the island was not a collaborator? The only effective resistance a man could make would be to kill everyone within reach and then himself, thus depriving them of slaves⁠—and that was, after all, only what the execs themselves had done in other places often enough. It would inconvenience them only slightly. The next few planeloads or shiploads of possessed warm bodies from the mainland would be permitted to live, instead of being required to dash themselves to destruction, like the crew of the airplane that had carried Chandler. Thus the domestic stocks would be replenished.</p>
			<p>An annoying feature of dining with Rosalie in the flesh, Chandler found, was that half a dozen times while they were talking he found himself taken, speaking words to Rosie that were not his own, usually in a language he did not understand. She took it as a matter of course. It was merely a friend, across the room or across the island, using Chandler as the casual convenience of a telephone. “Sorry,” she apologized blithely after it happened for the third time, and then stopped. “You don’t like that, love, do you?”</p>
			<p>“Can you blame me?” He stopped himself from saying more; he was astonished even so at his tone.</p>
			<p>She said it for him. “I know. It takes away your manhood, I suppose. Please don’t let it do that to you, love. We’re not so bad. Even⁠—” She hesitated, and did not go on. “You know,” she said, “I came here the same way you did. Kidnaped off the stage of the Winter Garden. Of course, the difference was the one who kidnaped me was an old friend. Though I didn’t know it at the time and it scared me half to death.”</p>
			<p>Chandler must have looked startled. She nodded. “You’ve been thinking of us as another race, haven’t you? Like the Neanderthals or⁠—well, worse than that, maybe.” She smiled. “We’re not. About half of us came from Russia in the first place, but the others are from all over. You’d be astonished, really.” She mentioned several names, world-famous scientists, musicians, writers. “Of course, not everybody can qualify for the club, love. Wouldn’t be exclusive otherwise. The chief rule is loyalty. I’m loyal,” she added gently after a moment, “and don’t you forget it. Have to be. Whoever becomes an exec has to be with us, all the way. There are tests. It has to be that way⁠—not only for our protection. For the world’s.”</p>
			<p>Chandler was genuinely startled at that. Rosie nodded seriously. “If one exec should give away something he’s not supposed to it would upset the whole applecart. There are only a thousand of us, and I guess probably two billion of you, or nearly. The result would be complete destruction.”</p>
			<p>Of the Executive Committee, Chandler thought she meant at first, but then he thought again. No. Of the world. For the thousand execs, outnumbered though they were two million to one, could not fail to triumph. The contest would not be in doubt. If the whole thousand execs at once began systematically to kill and destroy, instead of merely playing at it as the spirit moved them, they could all but end the human race overnight. A man could be made to slash his throat in a quarter of a minute. An exec, killing, killing, killing without pause, could destroy his own two million enemies in an eight-hour day.</p>
			<p>And there were surer, faster ways. Chandler did not have to imagine them, he had seen them. The massacre of the Orphalese, the victims at the Monument⁠—they were only crumbs of destruction. What had happened to New York City showed what mass-production methods could do. No doubt there were bombs left, even if only chemical ones. Shoot, stab, crash, blow up; swallow poison, leap from window, slit throat. Every man a murderer, at the touch of a mind from Hawaii; and if no one else was near to murder, surely each man could find a victim in himself. In one ravaging day mankind would cease to exist as a major force. In a week the only survivors would be those in such faroff and hopelessly impotent places that they were not worth the trouble of tracking down.</p>
			<p>“You hate us, don’t you?”</p>
			<p>Chandler paused and tried to find an answer. Rosie was not either belligerent or mocking. She was only sympathetically trying to reach his point of view. He shook his head silently.</p>
			<p>“Not meaning ‘no’⁠—meaning ‘no comment’? Well, I don’t blame you, love. But do you see that we’re not altogether a bad thing? It’s bad that there should be so much violence. In a way. Hasn’t there always been violence? And what were the alternatives? Until we came along the world was getting ready to kill itself anyway.”</p>
			<p>“There’s a difference,” Chandler mumbled. He was thinking of his wife. He and Margot had loved each other as married couples do⁠—without any very great, searing compulsion; but with affection, with habit and with sporadic passion. Chandler had not given much thought to the whole, though he was aware of the parts, during the last years of his marriage. It was only after Margot’s murder that he had come to know that the sum of those parts was a quite irreplaceable love.</p>
			<p>But Rosie was shaking her head. “The difference is all on our side. Suppose Koitska’s boss had never discovered the coronets. At any moment one country might have got nervous and touched off the whole thing⁠—not carefully, the way we did it, with most of the really dirty missiles fused safe and others landing where they were supposed to go. I mean, touched off a <em>war</em>. The end, love. The bloody <i xml:lang="fr">finis</i>. The ones that were killed at once would have been the lucky ones. No, love,” she said, in dead earnest, “we aren’t the worst things that ever happened to the world. Once the⁠—well, the <em>bad</em> part⁠—is over, people will understand what we really are.”</p>
			<p>“And what’s that, exactly?”</p>
			<p>She hesitated, smiled and said modestly, “We’re gods.”</p>
			<p>It took Chandler’s breath away⁠—not because it was untrue, but because it had never occurred to him that gods were aware of their deity.</p>
			<p>“We’re gods, love, with the privilege of electing mortals to the club. Don’t judge us by anything that has gone before. Don’t judge us by anything. We are a New Thing. We don’t have to conform to precedent because we upset all precedents. From now on, to the end of time, the rules will grow from us.”</p>
			<p>She patted her lips briskly with a napkin and said, “Would you like to see something? Let’s take a little walk.”</p>
			<p>She took him by the hand and led him across the room, out to a sundeck on the other side of the restaurant. They were looking down on what had once been a garden. There were people in it; Chandler was conscious of sounds coming from them, and he was able to see that there were dozens of them, perhaps a hundred, and that they all seemed to be wearing suntans like his own.</p>
			<p>“From Tripler?” he guessed.</p>
			<p>“No, love. They pick out those clothes themselves. Stand there a minute.”</p>
			<p>The girl in the coronet walked out to the rail of the sundeck, where pink and amber spotlights were playing on nothing. As she came into the colored lights there was a sigh from the people in the garden. A man walked forward with an armload of leis and deposited them on the ground below the rail.</p>
			<p>They were <em>adoring</em> her.</p>
			<p>Rosalie stood gravely for a moment, then nodded and returned to Chandler.</p>
			<p>“They began doing that about a year ago,” she whispered to him, as a murmur of disappointment came up from the crowd. “Their own idea. We didn’t know what they wanted at first, but they weren’t doing any harm. You see, love,” she said softly, “we can make them do anything we like. But we don’t make them do that.”</p>
			<p>Hours later, Chandler was not sure just how, they were in a light plane flying high over the Pacific, clear out of sight of land. The moon was gold above them, the ocean black beneath.</p>
			<p>Chandler stared down as the girl circled the plane, slipping lower toward the water, silent and perplexed. But he was not afraid. He was almost content. Rosie was good company⁠—gay, cheerful⁠—and she had treasures to share. It had been an impulse of hers, a long drive in her sports car and a quick, comfortable flight over the ocean to cap the evening. It had been a pleasant impulse. He reflected gravely that he could understand now how generations of country maidens had been dazzled and despoiled. A touch of luxury was a great seducer.</p>
			<p>The coronet on the girl’s body could catch his body at any moment. She had only to think herself into his mind, and her will, flashed to a relay station like the one he was building for Koitska, at loose in infinity, could sweep into him and make him a puppet. If she chose, he would open that door beside him and step out into a thousand feet of air and a meal for the sharks.</p>
			<p>But he did not think she would do it. He did not think anyone would, really, though with his own eyes he had seen some anyones do things as bad as that and sickeningly worse. There was no corrupt whim of the most diseased mind in history that some torpid exec had not visited on a helpless man, woman or child in the past years. Even as they flew here, Chandler knew, the gross bodies that lay in luxury in the island’s villas were surging restlessly around the world; and death and horror remained where they had passed. It was a paradox too great to be reconciled, this girl and this vileness. He could not forget it, but he could not feel it in his glands. She was pretty. She was gay. He began to think thoughts that had left him alone for a long time.</p>
			<p>The dark bulk of the island showed ahead and they were sinking toward a landing.</p>
			<p>The girl landed skillfully on a runway that sprang into light as she approached⁠—electronic wizardry, or the coronet and some tethered serf at a switch? It didn’t matter. Nothing mattered very greatly at that moment to Chandler.</p>
			<p>“Thank you, love,” she said, laughing. “I liked that. It’s all very well to use someone else’s body for this sort of thing, but every now and then I want to keep my own in practice.”</p>
			<p>She linked arms with him as they left the plane. “When I was first given the coronet here,” she reminisced, amusement in her voice, “I got the habit real bad. I spent six awful months⁠—really, six months in bed! And by myself at that. Oh, I was all over the world, and skin-diving on the Barrier Reef and skiing in Norway and⁠—well,” she said, squeezing his arm, “never <em>mind</em> what all. And then one day I got on the scales, just out of habit. Do you know what I <em>weighed</em>?” She closed her eyes in mock horror, but they were smiling when she opened them again. “I won’t do that again, love. Of course, a lot of us do let ourselves go. Even Koitska. Especially Koitska. And some of the women⁠—But just between us, the ones who do really didn’t have much to keep in shape in the first place.”</p>
			<p>She led the way into a villa that smelled of jasmine and gardenias, snapped her fingers and subdued lights came on. “Like it? Oh, we’ve nothing but the best. What would you like to drink?”</p>
			<p>She fixed them both tall, cold glasses and vetoed Chandler’s choice of a sprawling wicker chair to sit on. “Over here, love.” She patted the couch beside her. She drew up her legs, leaning against him, very soft, warm and fragrant, and said dreamily, “Let me see. What’s nice? What do you like in music, love?”</p>
			<p>“Oh⁠ ⁠… anything.”</p>
			<p>“No, no! You’re supposed to say, ‘Why, the original-cast album from <i epub:type="se:name.visual-art.film">Hi There</i>.’ Or anything else I starred in.” She shook her head reprovingly, and the points of her coronet caught golden reflections from the lights. “But since you’re obviously a man of low taste I’ll have to do the whole bit myself.” She touched switches at a remote-control set by her end of the couch, and in a moment dreamy strings began to come from tri-aural speakers hidden around the room. It was not <i epub:type="se:name.visual-art.film">Hi There</i>. “That’s better,” she said drowsily, and in a moment, “Wasn’t it nice in the plane?”</p>
			<p>“It was fine,” Chandler said. Gently⁠—but firmly⁠—he sat up and reached automatically into his pocket.</p>
			<p>The girl sighed and straightened. “Cigarette? They’re on the table beside you. Hope you like the brand. They only keep one big factory going, not to count those terrible Russian things that’re all air and no smoke.” She touched his forehead with cool fingers. “You never told me about that, love.”</p>
			<p>It was like an electric shock⁠—the touch of her fingers and the touch of reality at once. Chandler said stiffly, “My brand. But I thought you were there at the trial.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, only now and then. I missed all the naughty parts⁠—though, to tell the truth, that’s why I was hanging around. I do like to hear a little naughtiness now and then⁠ ⁠… but all I heard was that stupid lawyer and that stupid judge. Made me mad.” She giggled. “Lucky for you. I was so irritated I decided to spoil their fun too.”</p>
			<p>Chandler sat up and took a long pull at his drink. Curiously, it seemed to sober him. He said: “It’s nothing. I happened to rape and kill a young girl. Happens every day. Of course, it was one of your friends that was doing it for me, but I didn’t miss any of what was going on, I can give you a blow-by-blow description if you like. The people in the town where I lived, at that time, thought I was doing it on my own, though, and they didn’t approve. Hoaxing⁠—you know? They thought I was so perverse and cruel that I would do that sort of thing under my own power, instead of with some exec⁠—or, as they would have put it, being ignorant, some imp, or devil, or demon⁠—pulling the strings.”</p>
			<p>He was shaking. He waited for what she had to say; but she only whispered, “I’m sorry, love,” and looked so contrite and honest that, as rapidly as it had come upon him, his anger passed.</p>
			<p>He opened his mouth to say something to her. He didn’t get it said. She was sitting there, looking at him, alone and soft and inviting. He kissed her; and as she returned the kiss, he kissed her again, and again.</p>
			<p>But less than an hour later he was in her Porsche, cold sober, raging, frustrated, miserable. He slammed it through the unfamiliar gears as he sped back to the city.</p>
			<p>She had left him. They had kissed with increasing passion, his hands playing about her, her body surging toward him, and then, just then, she whispered, “No, love.” He held her tighter and without another word she opened her eyes and looked at him.</p>
			<p>He knew what mind it was that caught him then. It was her mind. Stiffly, like wood, he released her, stood up, walked to the door and locked it behind him.</p>
			<p>The lights in the villa went out. He stood there, boiling, looking into the shadows through the great, wide, empty window. He could see her lying there on the couch, and as he watched he saw her body toss and stir; and as surely as he had ever known anything before he knew that somewhere in the world some woman⁠—or some man!⁠—lay locked with a lover, violent in love, and was unable to tell the other that a third party had invaded their bed.</p>
			<p>Chandler did not know it until he saw something glistening on his wrist, but he was weeping on the wild ride back to Honolulu in the car. Her car. Would there be trouble for his taking it? God, let there be trouble! He was in a mood for trouble. He was sick and wild with revulsion.</p>
			<p>Worse than her use of him, a casual stimulant, an aphrodisiac touch, was that she thought what she did was right. Chandler thought of the worshipping dozens under the sundeck of the exec restaurant, and Rosalie’s gracious benediction as they made her their floral offerings. Blind, pathetic fools!</p>
			<p>Not only the deluded men and women in the garden were worshippers trapped in a vile religion, he thought. It was worse. The gods and goddesses worshipped at their own divinity as well!</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
